Retired Computer Science Professor Peter Kugel passed away on October
11, 2021.  He died at home with his wife Judy and his sons Jeremy and
Seth at his bedside. He was 91.

Peter was a much beloved member of the Computer Science Department.
He joined the department shortly after its founding in 1970 and
retired in 2005.  He was known in the department for his warmth and
generosity, for his wide ranging interests and for his humor. He was
an exceptional colleague and an especially generous mentor to both
students and junior faculty colleagues.

Peter's scholarly interests were broad but his main interests centered
around human intelligence, logic and computability, a topic that he
continued to work on in retirement.  He published an influential article
on induction in 1977.  [Induction pure and simple](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0019995877901759), *Information and Control*, December 1977.

[Thinking may be more than computing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/0010027786900570) *Cognition*, March 1986.

[How professors develop as teachers](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/03075079312331382241?casa_token=vxgeZxUcbzIAAAAA:oN2JrjBumxTsyA0Ha7maYTPw5gAdrZYSBdVFxKOM3M-OmZJ3HVtbiRN-RdEMkzf4y8x1LVz6zpkssw), *Studies in Higher Education*, 1993.

Peter was born in Berlin, Germany, in 1930 and arrived in the United
States via Holland and England when he was seven. He grew up in
Manhattan. Peter's tongue-in-cheek biography reflects his endearing
sense of humor: *When I graduated from Colgate, I was drafted into the
Army where I helped fight the Korean War from behind a desk in
Maryland. I earned a PhD in philosophy at Harvard and, finding the
available jobs in philosophy unappealing, I went to work for a company
developing software on Boston's Route 128.  From there, I went to MIT
where I tried unsuccessfully to invent Google.  After MIT, I came to
Boston College where I taught computer science for 35 years until
retiring in 2005.*

## Quotes from BC People

"Peter Kugel was a lively presence in the department," writes
Professor Sergio Alvarez. "I'm glad that I had the opportunity to see
him on several of the occasions when he came back to visit after he
retired. He would usually say something that would make me smile, or
chuckle."

Biology Department Professor Peter Clote remembers that "Peter was a
real joy to be around, and was always for me the most inspiring and
interesting of the â€˜old guard' of the Computer Science department. His
bulletin board with the New York Times clippings was a highlight in
Fulton Hall, and I'll miss him."

"Some of my enduring memories of Peter are of his sense of humor and
love of all things Turing-related, writes former Computer Science
Department Professor Amitabha Roy. "Sorry to hear of his passing."

"Peter was always so full of life and a unique character," writes
retired Computer Science Department Professor Bob Signorile.

Retired CS Department Professor Peter Olivieri recalls sharing many
laughs with Peter as well as "wonderful computer science discussions."
Olivieri adds, "He was unique, with a great sense of humor and a
friend to everyone in the department. He is no doubt now carrying on
those conversations with some of his idols."

## From Judy

I don't know all the details, except that when he finished his PhD
after taking some time off in the middle, there were no logic jobs,
but plenty of computer science opportunities.  When he started
teaching computer science at BC, he had never taken a computer science
course.  Regrettably, he was still working on his major work when he
died -- namely his own understanding of how intelligence works, and
although I tried to persuade him to let me mail it to someone to look
over, he refused.  It's sad.  

Peter did have an interesting work history.  When I met him in 1965 he
was working at Tech Ops where among other things he developed some
games for the military to use. He did start his doctoral work with
Quine, but he died before Peter finished, and I want to say that he
finished it under Hilary Putnam.

## Peter Tweet

A final footnote: last year, Peter wrote a multi-part Tweet posted on
his wife's 80-something blog reflecting on his life: On Tuesday, I'll
be 90. People will congratulate me and I'll thank them. But I'll be
puzzled. What they're congratulating me for (having stayed on this
side of the grass for ninety years) is mostly the work of others. So
why are people congratulating me?

Why aren't they congratulating the author of the 80-something blog, my
doctors, my friends my genes or my luck? In 1936, Peter Kugel was a
6-year-old boy living in Berlin, Germany. He spoke German, collected
stamps and, like any German 6-year-old, adored Adolph Hitler.

That boy is gone. He stopped loving Hitler when he found out how
Hitler felt about him. Today's Peter Kugel can't speak or understand
German. If he met the six-year-old Peter Kugel, they wouldn't
understand each other.

I'm not the 6-year-old German. And that's probably a good thing. The
stamps that fascinated the 6-year-old would bore me today and the
discussions about medical procedures that fascinate the 90-year-old
that I'll be on Tuesday, would have bored the 6-year-old boy. (5 of 7)

As I brushed my teeth this morning, I wondered what I would do if I
was given the chance to live one more day and I had to decide to live
it as either the young boy I was in 1936, knowing only what I knew
then, or live it as the old man I am today.

I think I'd ask them to bend the rules and let me have both.





